DOCS-6080 Platform Offerings Topic (#49)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment-options.adoc

= Anypoint Platform Deployment Options
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Anypoint Platform is an advanced enterprise platform for designing, developing, and managing APIs, 

> as well as for connecting APIs with applications, data, and devices. It allows you to deploy applications 

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "allows" with "enables" when referring to user/audience capability. It is more empowering...lol....
```suggestion
as well as for connecting APIs with applications, data, and devices. It enables you to deploy applications 
```

> anywhere–on-premises, in the cloud, or in a hybrid environment–to reliably address both small-scale and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anywhere (on-premises, in the cloud, or in a hybrid environment) to reliably address both small-scale and 
```
GLOBALLY avoid using dashes, and never use a hyphen in place of an em-dash (I misread this instance).

Author: Got it - thanks!

mission-critical use cases.

> Anypoint Platform functionality can be classified into two main categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform functionality is classified into two main categories:
```

* Control plane
+ 
The Anypoint Platform control plane provides design, engagement, and management capabilities.
* Runtime plane. 
+ 
The Anypoint Platform runtime plane is where applications are deployed, and also where Mule runtime engine (Mule)

> and other application-related services, such as Anypoint Connectors, Object Store, and messaging, run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and other application-related services (such as Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Object Store, and messaging) run. 
```

Author: Got it - thanks!

> The following table lists Anypoint Platform control and runtime plane components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists Anypoint Platform control and runtime plane components:
```
GLOBALLY end the intro sentence or fragment directly before a table, list, syntax example, or graphic with a colon.

Author: Got it - thanks!

[%header,cols="2*a"]
|===
| Anypoint Platform Control Plane Components | Anypoint Platform Runtime Plane Components
a|
* API Designer 

> * Studio 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Studio 
```

* Flow Designer 

> * Exchange 

Reviewer: Anypoint Exchange

> * API Community Manager 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint API Community Manager 
```

* Access management
* Analytics

> * API Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint API Manager
```

> * Runtime Manager 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Runtime Manager 
```

> * Monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Monitoring
```

* Secrets manager

> * Visualizer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Visualizer 
```

a|
* Mule runtime engine

> * Anypoint Security Edge Policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Security edge policies
```

> * Anypoint Security Tokenization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Security tokenization
```

* Anypoint MQ

> * Object Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Object Store
```

|===

== Control and Runtime Plane Locations and Management
With Anypoint Platform, you choose where to host your control and runtime planes and whether you want to 
manage them, which then determines the Anypoint Platform deployment option that is right for you. 
The following tables summarize the options for control and runtime plane locations and management: 

[%header,cols="5*a"]
|===

> | Plane | CloudHub | Hybrid | On-premises | On-premises using Private Cloud Edition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Plane | CloudHub | Hybrid | On-Premises | On-Premises Using Private Cloud Edition
```

Reviewer: I suggest removing all of the following periods, except those ending the complete sentences in the bullet list.

| Control plane | Located in the US, EU, and US-based FedRAMP certified regions. | Located in the US, EU, and US-based FedRAMP certified regions. | Located in the US and EU regions. | Located on-premises.
| Control plane managed by | MuleSoft | MuleSoft | MuleSoft | You
| Runtime plane | Located in 13 regions globally. 
a| 

* Located in 13 regions globally. 
* Located in your environment (using Anypoint Runtime Fabric or virtual machines). | Located in your environment (using Anypoint Runtime Fabric or virtual machines). | Located in your environment (on virtual machines).
| Runtime plane managed by | MuleSoft 
a| 

* MuleSoft manages runtime planes in global regions. 
* You manage runtimes in your environment. | You | You
|===

== Deployments and Components

> Anypoint Platform control plane and runtime components are listed in the following tables with their 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform control plane and runtime components, and their availability across deployment options, are listed in the following tables.
```

Reviewer: See if you can avoid referring to "the following" anything except directly before the thing referred to.
Sometimes this involves introducing with one sentence or fragment that ends with a colon, showing the thing referred to, and then moving the explanatory text to follow the shown thing.

> availability across deployment options. Deployment options include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployment options include:
```

* US cloud
The complete Anypoint Platform. All data is hosted within the US.
* EU cloud
Includes all US cloud components, but differs from the US cloud in that all data is hosted within the EU. Refer to xref:eu-control-plane::index.adoc[About the EU Control Plane] for additional information.
* MuleSoft Government Cloud
FedRAMP moderate authorized version of US cloud. Refer to xref:gov-cloud::index.adoc[About Government Cloud] for additional information.
* Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition (Anypoint Platform PCE)
A single-tenant version of US cloud managed by your IT team. Anypoint Platform PCE supports on-premises and cloud installation and is specifically designed for customers with strict regulatory or compliance requirements that limit the use of cloud solutions. Refer to xref:private-cloud::index.adoc[About Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition] for additional information.

Refer to https://www.mulesoft.com/anypoint-pricing for Anypoint Platform component availability based on your subscription.

=== Control Plane Components and Availability Across Deployment Options
[%header,cols="5*a"]
|===

> | Anypoint Platform Component | US Cloud | EU Cloud | MuleSoft Government Cloud | Anypoint Platform PCE

Reviewer: Please use full product names in the component column, based on the edits in the table at the beginning of this topic set.

| API Designer | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Studio | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Flow Designer | Y | Y | N | N
| Exchange | Y | Y | Y | Y
| API Community Manager* | Y | Y | N | N
| Access management | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Analytics | Y | Y | N | N
| API Manager | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Runtime Manager | Y | Y | Y | Y (excluding Insights)
| Monitoring | Y | Y | N | N
| Secrets manager | Y | Y | N | N
| Visualizer | Y | Y | N | N
|===

> *Community Manager is powered by the Salesforce platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Anypoint API Community Manager (API Community Manager) is powered by the Salesforce platform.
```

=== Runtime Plane Options and Deployments

> For the Anypoint Platform runtime plane, you have three options: CloudHub, Runtime Fabric, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Anypoint Platform runtime plane, you have three options: CloudHub, Anypoint Runtime Fabric (Runtime Fabric), 
```

> or on-premises Mule runtime engines. Hybrid environments include both CloudHub and on-premises Mule runtime engine functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or on-premises Mule runtime engine instances (Mule instances). Hybrid environments include both CloudHub and on-premises Mule functionality.
```

* CloudHub
+
With CloudHub, MuleSoft hosts and manages the infrastructure. Enterprise-grade capabilities, such as 99.99% uptime, one-click scalability, and automatic updates, are provided as a service.
* Runtime Fabric
+

> Use Anypoint Runtime Fabric if you have requirements to deploy Mule runtimes on your own infrastructure, whether it’s in a private IaaS (Microsoft Azure or AWS) or in an on-premises data center. You can still reap the benefits of CloudHub, such as horizontal scalability and zero downtime redeployments, while keeping your runtimes on-premises.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Anypoint Runtime Fabric (Runtime Fabric) if deploy Mule instances in your own infrastructure, whether it’s in a private IaaS (Microsoft Azure or AWS) or in an on-premises data center. You can still reap the benefits of CloudHub, such as horizontal scalability and zero downtime redeployments, while keeping your runtimes on-premises.
```

> * On-premises Mule runtime engines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On-premises Mule runtime engine instances
```

+

> Use standalone Mule runtime engines when you want to host and manage your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use standalone Mule instances when you want to host and manage your own infrastructure.
```

> ==== Runtime Plane Availability Across Deployment Options

Reviewer: We want to avoid nesting information down to a fourth level.
In cases such as these, see if you cannot reorganize to avoid this. Sometimes that involves dividing or promoting topics.

Reviewer: So...this must be one of "the following tables" referred to above. There has been a lot between the intro and this first table.

[%header,cols="5*a"]
|===
Runtime Plane | US Cloud | EU Cloud | MuleSoft Government Cloud | Private Cloud Edition
| CloudHub | Y | Y | Y | N
| Runtime Fabric | Y | Y | N | N

> | On-premises Mule runtime engines | Y | Y | N | Y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| On-premises Mule instances | Y | Y | N | Y
```

|===

==== Runtime Plane Component Availability Across Runtime Plane Options
[%header,cols="4*a"]
|===

> | Anypoint Platform Component | CloudHub | Runtime Fabric | On-premises Mule runtime engines 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anypoint Platform Component | CloudHub | Runtime Fabric | On-premises Mule instances
```

| Mule runtime engine | Y | Y | Y (excluding DataWeave)

> | Anypoint Security Edge Policies  | N | Y | N 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anypoint Security edge policies  | N | Y | N 
```

> | Anypoint Security Tokenization | N | Y | N

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anypoint Security tokenization | N | Y | N
```

Author: Got it - thx!

| Anypoint MQ | Y | N | N

> | Object Store | Y | N | N

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anypoint Object Store | Y | N | N
```

|===

== How to Identify Your Anypoint Platform Control and Runtime Planes
You can use your Anypoint Platform product URL to help determine what your environment contains: 

* To identify the control plane deployment option in use:

> ** Anypoint Platform PCE URLs reflect an internal domain set up by your organization, for example, `pce.yourname.net`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Anypoint Platform PCE URLs reflect an internal domain set up by your organization: for example, `pce.yourname.net`.
```

** URLs for deployments other than Anypoint Platform PCE contain information to identify the type of deployment: 
*** https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com (for EU cloud) 
*** https://gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com (for MuleSoft Government Cloud) 

> *** https://anypoint.mulesoft.com (for US Cloud). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*** https://anypoint.mulesoft.com (for US Cloud)
```

* To identify the runtime plane deployment option in use for an application, check the deployment option listed for that application in Runtime Manager:
** For an application deployed to CloudHub, the deployment target that is listed in Runtime Manager is set to `CloudHub`.
** For an application deployed to Runtime Fabric, the deployment target that is listed in Runtime Manager is the 
name of the Runtime Fabric.

> ** For an application deployed to an on-premises, standalone runtime, the deployment target listed in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For an application deployed to an on-premises, standalone Mule instance, the deployment target listed in 
```
